Psalm 78 a contemplation of a Seth give
ear all my people to my law incline your
ears to the words of my mouth I will
open my mouth in a parable I will utter
dark scenes of old which we have heard
and known and our fathers have told us
we will not hide them from their
children telling to the generation to
come the praises of the Lord and his
strength and his wonderful works that he
has done where he established a
testimony in Jacob and appointed a law
in Israel which he commanded our fathers
that they should make them known to
their children
that the generation to come might know
them the children who would be born that
they may rise and declare them to their
children that they may set their hope in
God and not forget the works of God
but keep his Commandments and may not be
like their fathers a stubborn and
rebellious generation a generation that
did not set its heart to write and whose
spirit was not faithful to God
the children of Ephraim being armed and
carrying bows turned back in the day of
battle they did not keep the Covenant of
God they refused to walk in his law and
forgot his works and his wonders that he
had shown them marvelous things he did
in the sight of their fathers in the
land of Egypt in the field of xoan he
divided the sea and caused them to pass
through and he made the water to stand
up like a heap in the daytime also he
led them with the cloud and all the
night with a light of fire he split the
rocks in the wilderness and gave them
drink in abundance like the deaths he
also brought streams out of the rock and
caused waters to run down like rivers
but they sinned even more against him by
rebelling against the most high in the
wilderness and they tested God in their
heart by asking for the food of their
fancy
yes they spoke against God they said can
God prepare a table in the wilderness
behold he struck the rock so that the
waters gushed out and the streams
overflowed can he give bread also can he
provide meat for his people therefore
the Lord heard this and was furious so a
fire was kindled against Jacob an anger
also came up against Israel because they
did not believe in God and did not trust
in his salvation
yet he had commanded the clouds above
and opened the doors of heaven and
rained down manna on them to eat and
given them of the bread of heaven men
ate angels food he sent them food to the
full
he caused an east wind to blow in the
heavens and by his power he brought in
the south wind
he also rained meat on them like the
dust feathered fowl at the sand of the
seas and he let them fall in the midst
of their camp all around their dwellings
so they ate and were well filled for he
gave them their own desire they were not
deprived of their craving
but while their food was still in their
mouths
the wrath of God came against them and
slew the stoutest of them and struck
down the choice men of Israel in spite
of this they still sinned and did not
believe in his wondrous works there for
their days he consumed in futility and
their years in fear when he slew them
then they saw him and they returned and
sought earnestly for God then they
remembered that God was their rock and
the Most High God their Redeemer
nevertheless they flattered him with
their mouth and they lied to him with
their tongue with her heart was not
steadfast with him nor were they
faithful in his covenant but he being
full of compassion forgave their
iniquity and did not destroy them yes
many a time he turned his anger away and
did not stir up all his wrath where he
remembered that they were but flesh a
breath that passes away and does not
come again how often they provoked him
in the wilderness and grieved him in the
desert yes again and again they tempted
God and limited the Holy One of Israel
they did not remember his power the day
when he redeemed them from the enemy
when he worked his signs in Egypt and
his wonders in the field of ZOA turned
their rivers into blood and their
streams but they could not drink he sent
swarms of flies among which devoured
them and frogs which destroyed them he
also gave their crops to the caterpillar
and their labor to the locust he
destroyed their vines with hail and
their sycamore trees with frost he also
gave up their cattle to the hail and
their flocks to fiery lightning
he cast on them the fierceness of his
anger wrath indignation and trouble by
sending angels of destruction among them
he made a path for his anger he did not
spare their soul from death but gave
their life over to the plague and
destroyed all the firstborn in Egypt the
first of their strength in the tents of
ham but he made his own people go forth
like sheep and guided them in the
wilderness like a flock and he led them
on safely so that they did not fear but
the CEO ver whelmed their enemies and he
brought them to his holy border this
mountain which his right hand had
acquired he also drove out the nations
before them a lot of them an inheritance
by survey and made the tribes of Israel
dwell in their tents yet they tested and
provoked the Most High God and did not
keep his testimonies but turned back and
acted unfaithfully like their fathers
they were turned aside like a deceitful
boat for they provoked him to anger with
their high places and moved him to
jealousy with their carved images when
God heard this he was furious and
greatly a horrid Israel so that he
forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh the
tent he had placed among men and
delivered his strength into captivity
and his glory into the enemy's hand
he also gave his people over to the
sword and was furious with his
inheritance the fire consumed their
young men and their maidens were not
given in marriage their priests fell by
the sword and their widows made no
lamentation
then the Lord awoke as from sleep like a
mighty man who shouts because of wine
and he beat back his enemies he put them
to a perpetual reproach moreover he
rejected the tent of Joseph and did not
choose the tribe of Ephraim but chose
the tribe of Judah Mount Zion which he
loved and he built his sanctuary like
the heights
like the earth which he has established
forever he also chose David his servant
and took him from the Sheep folds from
following the use that had young he
brought him to Shepherd Jacob his people
and Israel his inheritance so he
shepherded them according to the
integrity of his heart and guided them
by the skillfulness his hands
[Music]